---
layout: post
title:  Ben-To
mala:   10396
anidb:  8292
ann:    12541

imgDir: ben-to

categories:
- anime
- review
tags:
- school
- action
- comedy
- teenagers
- hotblooded
- optimistic
altTitles:
- Lun-Ch
- ベン・トー
recs:
- Baccano!
- Change 123
- FLCL
- Highschool of the Dead
- Medaka Box
- Samurai Champloo
- Senki Zesshou Symphogear
- Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann
---

Ben-To is a goofy action-comedy show about highschoolers that get into fist-fights over half-price supermarket food.
There's nothing deep or cerebral going on here, but then, the show never makes any claims to be. Instead, it aims to be an engaging romp through adolescent boyhood, and it fully delivers on that front.

Aside from the novelty of its setting, Ben-To's basic premise seems as bland as they come: an average highschool boy perseveres with hard work and guts, while he gets into compromising situations with girls on the weekends.
However, there are minor tweaks in the recipe, and for the most part, the series's sour spots are restricted to gags, which helps keep the show from feeling entirely stale.

Clearly then, Ben-To's strengths do not lie in its originality.
Rather, the show takes all of its generic tropes and seasons them to perfection, so everything feels familiar without coming across as hackneyed.
The pacing is quite good; it never feels rushed, and the slower portions are peppered with humor.
The jokes are about what you'd expect of any highschool comedy, mostly slapstick and sex, and it does go overboard at times, but there are enough surprises to keep you on your toes.
The fight sequences are always fun, mostly operating on gimmicks and the rule of cool.

On top of its solid execution, I think Ben-To's other great strength is that it really captures the romantic sense of what it means to be a teenage boy.
In the show, everything that happens is charged with hyperactive energy, and the highest ideals anyone aspires to are determination and honor.
Ben-To truly feels like a time capsule for me: hanging out, playing videogames, scraping money together, getting into trouble, and fantasizing about girls.
It's worth noting that our protagonist, Satou Yoh, definitely has a share of plot convenience working on his side, but he still has to give it his all, so it never feels like everything is simply handed to him on a silver platter.
This sense of happy nostalgia, coupled with a healthy dash of added wish-fulfillment, makes Ben-To feel like a chat with an old friend, and it makes the show that much more engaging.

Ben-To is fast, it's fun, and it doesn't have to fight to stay entertaining from beginning to end.
While it's hard to say the show truly brings anything new to the table, it never tries to bite off more than it can chew.
Even if highschool action/comedies are the equivalent of anime junk food, Ben-To is the cream of the crop, and ultimately, it makes for a satisfying experience.