---
layout: post

title:  Zegapain
mala:   878
anidb:  4178
ann:    6145

imgDir: zegapain

categories:
- anime review
tags:
- 2 cour
- long arc
- school
- sci-fi
- action
- drama
- mecha
- mystery
- teenagers
- somber
altTitles:
- ゼーガペイン
recs:
- Code Geass
- Dennou Coil
- Eve no Jikan
- Ghost in the Shell
- Pale Cocoon
- Planetes
- Serial Experiments Lain
- Terra e...
---

*Zegapain* is a serious science fiction series that spans mecha action, drama, mystery, and romance.
I don't want to give away too much, because the gradual story reveals are integral to the anime, but the gist is that humanity is on its last legs in a war against the machine army that now controls the Earth, and the story follows a small band of humans that combat the robots with their warships and mechs.
Even though the premise sounds like the beginning to a very action-heavy series, it's important to note that *Zegapain* is feels like more of a mystery/drama series that puts less focus on the fighting and more on slowly unraveling the secrets behind the war.
It's a show with very few true faults in its writing, with consistent pacing and intriguing plot twists as its strongest merits.

*Zegapain*'s plot could definitely stand to be a bit faster, but it never feels too slow, because it's paced very well.
There are no fillers to see here, something important is always in motion at each moment; on the opposite end of the spectrum, tragedy and victory are never drawn out past their welcome, always making way for new developments.
Through its consistent pace, the show gradually and masterfully builds tension.
Early on in the series, there exists tension and mystery from being just as lost as the main character, and then later, there is a separate kind of tension from being able to see behind the curtain when the characters can't.
In a fairly robust science-fiction setting, with constant danger looming overhead and the pressure of slowly unraveling the world's mysteries, *Zegapain* makes for a slow-burner that grips your attention more tightly than you'd expect at first glance.

Unfortunately, *Zegapain* creates so much tension that its payoffs almost seem to pale in comparison.
*Zegapain* does have some climactic moments, but they never seem to reach the heights that I would expect after all of the build-up.
Rather, instead of aiming for emotional highs, *Zegapain* often takes a more reserved, intellectual route, and constructs plot twists that are really quite interesting.
It's not a perfect trade-off, because I don't find it as gratifying as the more emotional approach, but I have to admit that some of the plot twists were truly fantastic, especially with the inclusion of red herrings, and when twists sometimes come one right after another.

Looking at *Zegapain*'s writing on a more granular scale, the characters aren't cliche and one-dimensional, but because the story is so plot-driven, there isn't enough time to fully flesh them out as well as they might be.
Individual scenes are hit-or-miss, sometimes bringing out the strength of the scenario in full force, and sometimes just being too on-the-nose in how it delivers the bare facts.
Panning out from there to look at the larger picture, each individual episode has a clear goal in sight, and a clean storyboard to back it up; similarly, the plot of the series as a whole also seems to have a roadmap that always keeps them on-track.
This might seem like an astoundingly mundane observation to make, but I actually feel that it's quite a rarity to be able to say that every episode is able to stand alone from beginning to end as a complete package and simultaneously be a single part of the greater whole without blending too much into its neighbors.

Apart from the lack of considerable climax during the series, *Zegapain*'s other biggest weakness is in its animation.
Most of the art is pretty clean, and a lot of the CGI has actually aged pretty well, but there's a ton of reused footage throughout the show, to the point where you can actually predict which stock scenes are about to appear. (Note: *Zegapain* is being redone as an anime film; I'm not sure that they'll redo the old animation, but they'll probably at least cut the frequent scene recycling.)
This definitely detracts from the viewing experience as a whole, but since *Zegapain* cares more about crafting a tight plot than about putting on a spectacle in the first place, I don't think it's as significant as it might be in another anime.

I truly do believe *Zegapain* is worth the watch, even though I don't think it particularly excels in any facet.
To be painfully honest, I think a lot of anime ends up being dull, generic, or poorly written/paced, so when I say that *Zegapain* is none of the above, I mean it as significant praise in its own right.
That doesn't mean I think *Zegapain*'s writing is perfect, because it never manages to reach the depths of contemplation or peaks of emotion that make me fall in love with a series.
To draw a parallel, strong defense is just as important as strong offense in any competition, and while defensive players/teams may not be as flashy or seem as impressive, they deliver the same results.
*Zegapain* is that rock-solid defensive team, striding confidently from beginning to end without ever stumbling.

Let me put it like this: if you managed to make it all the way to the end of this review without yawning, and you're in the mood for a no-nonsense, science-fiction anime, look no further than *Zegapain*.